Background broaden cite trim (#55)
con/opfvta-replication-2023: article/background.tex

% Long commentary on methods actually goes here.
% Explain stuff like Gentoo or containers here.

Independent verification of published results is a crucial step in the establishment and maintanence of trust in shared scientific understanding. \cite{TODO Too corny to cite Kuhn?}.

> Verification research has become more common due in part to dramatic results \cite{TODO: Salmon}, dedicated communities \cite{TODO: something wholesome}, and widely publicized large-scale reproducibility meta-analyses \cite{RPP}.

Author: I agree, we should choose a term and make it consistent. I think it will be easier to do that after we make bigger choices though, so I'll leave this comment open.

Unfortunately, in Neuroimaging, the execution of data analysis code often remains non-trivial and time consuming. \cite{TODO: I made this up} 
The execution of data analysis often requires significant knowledge of their software dependencies, which should be considered out-of-scope for the expected requirements of a researcher to reexecute.

> Because the installation, configuration, and execution software environments frequently requires in-depth knowledge of the internal workings, reexecution results remain underrepresented in scientific literature \cite{TODO my opinion, is that ok?}

Reviewer: There is some grammatical mismatch between the noun and the verb. We don't need to cite sources for everything, what I think you're trying to describe is a logical conclusion of a statement. But I think just referring to environment complexity makes it easier than going into details. It's also not the installation which is tricky, `make install` usually means “copy stuff”. What's tricky is compiling (might need a specific toolchain), and linking (static linking requires a package manager to keep a record of what dependency versions were present at *build* time, Portage does this; dynamic linking means you need to be aware of dependency requirements for future updates lest you break something, Portage does this as well). But really we shouldn't discuss this in any amount of detail...

Author: And even though portage does lots of nice things, it still took us a long time to fix our dependencies. 

I am using installation to mean the entire setup of the environment, code, etc. I think its common usage of "install" to include dependency resolution and compilation.

\subsection{Complexity in Reexecution}

Reexecution is an irreplacible component of research reproduction, but it frequently requires significant time and uncommon expertise to attempt.

> What makes reexecution particularly challenging is that it requires integration of many components, and even small differences in software environments can cause the entire system to fail.

Reviewer: Again, this is specifically the case for bleeding-edge software, which scientific software at the time of article writing often is. You would need to go very very far back in the history of sed or bash to find something that will break your stuff.

> Therefore, the authors consider all code that is executed TODO:(not neccesarily OS,etc tone it down) to be part of the requisite analysis instructions.

Reviewer: Nah, we actually build everything from source in this case, with the exception of the kernel (I think containers don't virutalize that, right? In any case maybe let's not discuss this here) and the GCC toolchain plus some miscellaneous stuff like bzip (you can check with `emerge --pretend @system` in the gentoo container).

Author: Sharing all code that is executed as a part of the analysis instructions is the primary reason that sharing the container image is important. It is not dependent on upstream repositories, the code used is preserved.

Yes, containers do not include their own kernel, but I ended up cutting that since it didn't seem directly relevant.

> This includes code that is installed as dependencies, which may come from many repositories that cannot be relied upon to host all legacy versions.

Reviewer: I think this should go in the dependency secition.

Reexecution either requires updating the software to modern dependencies, or the creation of a similar computational environment.
Environment construction becomes harder to reproduce with time as upstream repositories update, as the experienced with this project.

> \subsection{Software Dependency Problem and Containers}

Reviewer: This is the background section, stuff like discussing “problems” should go in the discussion. Also, are dependencies a problem? There are tons of dependency managers ranging from passable to excellent.

> A fundamental challenge of software dependency management is that dependencies can be nested arbitrarily deeply, which increases in complexity (TODO: O^n? does that even make sense to say?)

Reviewer: Doesn't really make sense in this context.

> As soon as one version of one dependency eventually becomes unavailable, the first step of executability is manually solving a computationally difficult problem.

Reviewer: It's not a computational problem. If the source is gone you're boned, there's nothing computational or difficult.

Author: I'm specifically thinking of what happened when I had to bump one dependency and then I was trying to find a version that is compatible with the Python version, scipy, and numpy. Computationally difficult, I just mean that there arent really any great algorithms for solving a dependency problem like that other than brute force. +1 though, "computationally difficult" is not clear.

> One way of solving the issue of rebuilding environments with integrated dependencies is distributing an entire operating system image with the environment installed and configured, which can be emulated as a "guest" environment within the "host" machine.

Reviewer: Yes, except we later concede that microservices are a more native use of containers, again, I think we shouldn't bring this up in the background. It's sort of the solution we found, so we detail it in the results, and discuss pro and con in the discusison.

Author: containers are part of being cloud native, but not synonymous. This isn't a solution we've found, its the already pretty common solution we chose so we can share the entire environment.

Virtual machines (colloquially "VMs") are attractive solutions to the software dependency problem, because the artifact that is distributed is in working order and should be executable with almost no knowledge of the internal workings.

> Once running, guest machines are self-contained and isolated from the host, which then eliminates the posibility of polluting the host environment and allows system administrators to safely allow relatively unrestricted usage from semi-trusted users.

Reviewer: Package managers also do this. I think this is a too specific way of describing what you do, when, etc.... In the immediate term we use containers because people can't be bothered to use package managers.

Author: It is possible to use package managers for the same purpose, but I don't think there's much reason to discuss how that is done here.

The weakness of VMs for solving this problem is primarily that they are expensive; VMs are inefficient with resource allocation in general. \cite{TODO: asmacdo} \footnote{Hard drive usage(and bandwidth), memory allocation, CPU allocation, start/restart time}

> 

Reviewer: Why is data analysis gone? We need to introduce it lest we completely forego what's actually happening here.

Modern advances in "container technology" have allowed similar benefits but strip redundancy by making limited use of the host machine, specifically the hypervisor.
Containers enable a complete working environment often as small as a few Megabytes, and can it be started as quickly as a normal local process.
Over time Docker and other organizations have established a governing body under the Linux Foundation project, the "Open Container Initiative" (OCI).
OCI produced an specification for containers, which can be used by various container runtimes and toolsets including Docker, Podman, and Apptainer \cite{TODO: apptainer something}

> While OCI images are nearly ubiquitous in the cloud industry, Singularity (recently renamed to Apptainer) is a toolset that was developed for High Performance Computing, and has its own native specification.

Reviewer: “the cloud industry”... dunno. Industry applications, software as a service applications?

Author: ```suggestion
While OCI images are nearly ubiquitous in cloud applications, Singularity (recently renamed to Apptainer) is a toolset that was developed for High Performance Computing, and has its own native specification.
```

> \subsection{Preserving Version Collection of Modular Components}

Reviewer: I do not understand what this subsection title means. Is this terminology from YODA? “Provenance Tracking“ could be better maybe?

Author: Not YODA, Im just trying to describe what we are specifically doing. PRovenance tracking is too vague of a term IMO, since I am specifically discussing the versions of the modular components, and not discussing tracking each command to be run etc. WDYT about "Preserving a Collection of Versioned Components"

TODO: weak needs a lot more
A proposed set of principles, "Yodas Organigram for Data Analysis" (YODA Principles), suggests linking external repositories via git submodules. \cite{TODO YODA}
By distributing a set of separately versioned component parts, YODA "compliant" data analysis helps us to make use of modularity to improve portability, reusability, and maintainability of the research execution stack.
the basic feasibility of \textit{de novo} research output generation from the earliest recorded provenance
TODO: needs a little datalad but not too much

> \subsection{Target Article 2022, Original Execution}

Reviewer: Few people (14 citations) care about this article in particular. Lots of people care about the general case of fMRI analysis, which this article happens to exemplify with reexecutable code. Better describe the data analysis and mention in synchronicity that that is exactly what the article does.
